Running Races
===========================================

This section is for assisting Race Directors with running
their races with the MultiGP Toolkit installed on a RotorHazard system


Enforced Rules
-------------------------------------------

When the MultiGP Toolkit is install on a RotorHazard system there are a
certain set of rules it enforces to ensure that the results generated
by the system are capable of being uploaded to MultiGP reliably.

All Races
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The follow rules will be enforced by the system for any race ran with
the plugin installed. This **INCLUDES** any races under classes and heats
that were manually created.
    
- A pilot is only allowed to occupy one slot per heat

Controlled Races
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The follow rules may be enforced by the system for any race ran with
the plugin installed **INCLUDING** any races under classes and heats
that were manually created, but **EXCLUDING** any classes that were creating
by importing a ZippyQ race.
    
- Each heat within a class must advance to the max round currently in the class before any class currently at the highest round can advance.
    
.. admonition:: Example

    Heat 1 has completed 3 rounds, Heat 2 has completed
    2 rounds, and Heat 3 has completed 2 rounds. 
    
    Heat 1 cannot run a 4th round until Heat 2 **and** Heat 3 have
    completed 3 rounds.

- Each pilot will only be able to participate in one heat per class

.. note::

    This rule is not enforced due to situations where a minimum
    of pilots per heat is enforced. Instead, a warning will be
    produced by the system warning about how a pilot's MultiGP result 
    for a given round (on MultiGP's side) will be obtained by the last heat 
    they participate in that round (on RotorHazard's side).


ZippyQ Races
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The follow rules will be enforced by the system for a race belonging to
a class that was generated by importing a ZippyQ race from MultiGP.

- ZippyQ rounds must be ran in the order in which they were created
- ZippyQ completed rounds cannot be repeated. The expection is when a race needs to be re-ran.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`ReRunning Races <rerunning races>`

Global Qualifiers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The follow rules will be enforced by the system for a race belonging to
a class that was imported as a Global Qualifier (Controlled or ZippyQ).


- The timer's codebase must not be altered and must be up to date. This includes the primiary RotorHazard codebase as well as the MultiGP Toolkit's codebase.

.. note::

    The MultiGP Toolkit contains a system to notify the
    race director to update the system when there is
    an update available for either RotorHazard or
    the MultiGP Toolkit

- A minimum of 3 pilots are required per heat
- The imported class from MultiGP's can not be altered
- The format assigned to the imported class from MultiGP cannot be altered with exception to the settings that manage the start/stop behavior of the timer


.. _rerunning races:

ReRunning Races
-------------------------------------------